Welcome back.
So in this video we're going to revisit a built in function.
We've been using a bunch called Lenn or length.
As you may have heard now it's a pet peeve of mine that it's empty and it's not that much longer to
say lying anyway.
But we're not just going to see what we've already learned.
You know that it returns the length of an object you can pass in a sequence like a string a tuple list
or a range or a collection like a dictionary or a set and it will give you the length number of items
in there as an integer.
So you know we don't have to review all of this but there's examples in the slides of passing in a string
a tuple of lists to arrange a set in a dictionary.
So we've seen we can present a string get a length get passed in a dictionary and we get a blank.
And the way that that dictionary length is calculated is based off of the number of key value pairs
in there.
So we could have another one and the length this is two.
OK.
Now what I really want to get into is how this works.
So then on whatever object we call behind the scenes all of these have a not really secret but a built
in method a dunder double underscore method called Lenn like this.
So if we called it on a string like hello dot double underscore a line.
If you watch the module section we talked about double or Dondre name.
So two underscores.
Name two underscores there's a method called Blen that exists on all of these things anything we can
pass into the function then the built in function.
This string has a double underscore Len method or a list like this has its own double underscore Len.
And the reason this matters you would probably never call this yourself.
But the way that Lenn the built in function is implemented like this.
When I do line of high behind the scenes it's actually calling the double underscore Len method and
getting a result.
So this is sort of like an adapter that will call the specific double underscore LAN method on whatever
object is passed in.
So that's one thing I just want to show you is that there is this built in method double underscore
line getting tired of saying that that is called Behind the scenes.
But what's also interesting and this is going to be a jump to the future but I think it's kind of interesting
we haven't talked about Object-Oriented Programming in defining our own classes and objects but once
we get there and I'm going to show you a preview right now we can define our own double underscore learn
methods on classes we define.
So we might you know create our own class called deck of cards and we want to be able to call Lenn on
deck deck 1 which would be a variable and it's not going to know by default.
How do you calculate the length of something like that.
Or maybe we pass in a song class.
How do you calculate the length of a song.
Is it the number of words.
Is it that the duration is totally up to us.
So what we would do is when we define the song class and again bear with me if you're not familiar with
Object-Oriented Programming but we'll be able to define our own types essentially.
And if we defined a song class we could add a double underscore Lenn inside of it and tell it exactly
what we want the length to be.
Is it going to be the duration.
Is it going to be 25 every song.
Is it going to be the number of lines and so on.
So I actually have an example of this and it looks like this.
And this is all new stuff.
Every line here pretty much is something we haven't seen.
And I don't want to overwhelm you kind of wanted to put on blinders like if you're a horse and just
focus right here.
But what I'm doing is I'm making a class that I'm calling special list.
So you know how we can do things like list one two three and that makes us a new list or I can do a
tuple or a set or we've seen as TR And you can pass in you know like a number and turn it into a string.
Those are all built in functions that generate a new object a new list or whatever.
We can do our own custom one here.
I have one I've called special list so here I'm actually defining my own class just like a list or string.
Except this one doesn't do anything except I have a Lenn method implemented.
And this line method returns 50.
No matter what.
So there could be 100 items there could be one item though one is always going to be 50.
And the cool thing is that I'm able to use the built in len function in pass in my special list an instance
of specialist I saved to variable and it's going to behind the scenes say OK we'll just L-1 have a double
underscore Len.
If it does let's call that and whatever it gives us just send it back and it happens to be 50 because
that's the only option.
The way I've written it just like if I had called Len on hello it's going to see.
All right does this halo thing have a double underscore Len.
If it does call that it's the same exact idea.
So here don't worry about the syntax.
But I've implemented my own land.
That always returns 50.
So let's just verify that.
I'm going to make two lists L1 and L2 and this one is going to be empty.
And then I'm going to do that and I'll print Lenn of L. 2.
Let's test it.
And I called this list up here.
And we get 50.
Every single time.
So again don't worry about the self thing the classic keyword innit.
All of this stuff doesn't really matter.
But I just want to show you we can overwrite or define our own custom Lenn double underscore line which
then the built in function one that we've been using will automatically call.
And here's one more version.
It's a little fancier but all that this does is it returns half of the actual length.
So for self-taught data that's the data that is in this list and I'm running the double underscore one
and then integer dividing it by two.
So let's add a couple more items to this guy and then this one I'll have.
There we go.
So when I run print Len L. 1 now it's going to give me the length divided by two as an integer.
Let's see.
And I get four and two and I think that's about right.
One two three four five six seven eight nine remember it's integer division.
So he gives us four instead of instead of four point five.
And then two is half of four anyway.
So we can kind of screw with things in this sense you probably wouldn't want a list or any sort of specialist
that returns half the actual length.
But I just want to show you behind the scenes the magic is here.
This property this method is called by Lenn by default.
OK hopefully getting confused too much but sometimes you know I think you could be more exciting to
incorporate little previews of more advanced topics.
So we've seen line are probably bored by it by now.
I didn't want to spend the whole video just showing you.
You can do it on a string you can do.
I don't know.
I want to show you we can do learn on some magical thing we invent and we can mess it up and have it
returned to something crazy.
OK.
All done.